README.md, before:

# CamControl — Android Camera Streaming (Android + Mac Web + Orin)

English | [中文](README_zh.md)

## Overview
- Purpose: Remote-control an Android phone camera, preview in a Mac web browser, and ingest/decode on Jetson Orin for processing or restreaming.
- Transport: One Ktor WebSocket endpoint on Android (`/control`, port `9090`) carries both control/telemetry (text JSON) and video (binary H.264 Annex‑B).
- Status: End‑to‑end preview and control are working; Orin ingest/RTSP/ROS2 scaffolds are in place.

## Architecture (Runtime)
```
Mac (Browser)  ←→  Android CamControl (Ktor WS 9090)  →  Orin (WS ingest)
    │  HTML/JS         └─ Camera2 + Encoder (H.264)         ├─ GStreamer NVDEC display
    │  WebCodecs            ↑  Broadcast commands            ├─ RTSP restream (rtsp://:8554/cam)
    └─ Controls JSON        │  Telemetry JSON                └─ ROS2 node publishes sensor_msgs/Image
```

- Browser: Connects to `ws://<host>:9090/control`, decodes video via WebCodecs (Annex‑B→AVCC) with Broadway fallback.
- Android: Ktor serves the web UI (`/`), WS `/control`, H.264 from MediaCodec; forwards UI commands to Activity; broadcasts telemetry.
- Orin: Native Python tools receive WS frames and feed GStreamer (`appsrc → h264parse → nvv4l2decoder`). Optional RTSP server and ROS2 publisher.

## Software Structure
```
app/                         # Android application module
  src/main/java/com/example/camcontrol/
    CamControlService.kt     # Foreground service: WS server, encoder, telemetry relay
    MainActivity.kt          # Camera control pipeline (preview + attach encoder surface)
    camera/Camera2Controller.kt
    encode/VideoEncoder.kt   # MediaCodec H.264 (Annex‑B)
    transport/ControlServer.kt# Ktor server (HTTP + WS /control)
    transport/ControlCommand.kt, Telemetry.kt
  src/main/assets/index.html # Web UI (WebCodecs decode + controls)

scripts/
  ws_probe.py                # Quick check: text/binary frames
  ws_save_h264.py            # Save WS H.264 to file (waits for SPS/IDR)
  record_on_device.py        # Trigger on-device MP4 recording via WS (recommended)
  archive/record_on_device_simple.py # Minimal MP4 recorder (legacy)
  log.sh, webui.sh           # Dev helpers (port 9090)

orin/
  ws_h264_gst.py             # WS ingest → GStreamer decode/display (NVDEC)
  ws_h264_rtsp_server.py     # WS → RTSP restream (rtsp://<orin-ip>:8554/cam)
  ros2_camcontrol/           # ROS2 Humble pkg (WS → sensor_msgs/Image)
  README.md, ARCHITECTURE.md # Orin docs

README.md, README_zh.md      # Bilingual overview
DIARY.md                     # Project diary & roadmap
PROJECT_STATUS_SUMMARY.md    # Snapshot of current status
```

## Protocols
- WebSocket endpoint: `ws://<phone-ip>:9090/control`
  - Text frames (JSON):
    - `{"cmd":"setZoomRatio","value":2.5}`
    - `{"cmd":"switchCamera","facing":"front"}`
    - `{"cmd":"setAeLock","value":true}` / `setAwbLock`, `startRecording`, `stopRecording`, `setVideoProfile`
  - Text telemetry (JSON): `{af, ae, iso, expNs, zoom, fps}`
  - Binary frames: H.264 Annex‑B (SPS/PPS precede IDR)

## Getting Started
### Android (build + run)
- Connect phone via USB; enable developer mode.
- Build + install: `./gradlew installDebug`
- Start app; set up port forwarding: `adb forward tcp:9090 tcp:9090`

### Mac Web Preview
- Open `http://localhost:9090` in a compatible browser (see Browser Compatibility below).
- If blank initially, refresh once (wait for SPS/PPS keyframe).
- **Browser Compatibility**:
  - ✅ **Safari 16.4+** (macOS 13.3+) — WebCodecs H.264 decode (recommended)
  - ✅ **Chrome 94+** — WebCodecs H.264 decode
  - ⚠️ **Edge** — WebCodecs may not be available; Broadway.js fallback used but may have issues
  - 🔧 **Firefox** — WebCodecs not supported; Broadway.js fallback used
- Troubleshooting:
  - Ensure app in foreground; `adb forward` active.
  - Proxy off/bypassed for localhost.
  - Check logs: `scripts/log.sh --both --forward`
  - Check browser console (F12) for decoder status: should show "WebCodecs" or "Broadway"
  - If decoder shows "None", try Safari or Chrome instead

### Save a local capture (Mac)
- `source .venv/bin/activate && python scripts/ws_save_h264.py --seconds 10 --out capture.h264`
- Remux to MP4: `ffmpeg -y -f h264 -i capture.h264 -c copy capture.mp4`

### Record video with custom quality settings (Mac)

**Recommended: On-Device Recording (MediaMuxer)**

Record video directly on Android with MediaMuxer for accurate timestamps and reliable quality:

```bash
# Quick 5-second recording with defaults (H.265, 1080p@30, 5 Mbps)
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 5

# Custom quality 10-second recording
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 10 -c h265 -b 8000000 --profile 1920x1080@30

# High quality 4K recording with zoom
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 30 -c h265 -b 15000000 --profile 3840x2160@30 -z 2.0
```

**Features**:
- ✅ **Accurate timestamps** - Video duration matches recording time
- ✅ **Auto file retrieval** - Pulls MP4 from device automatically  
- ✅ **Configurable quality** - Codec, bitrate, resolution, fps, zoom
- ✅ **Timestamped filenames** - `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_codec_resolution_fps_bitrate_duration.mp4`
- ✅ **Video info display** - Shows duration, fps, frame count

**Parameters**:
- `-d, --duration` — Recording duration in seconds (required)
- `-c, --codec` — h264 or h265 (default: h265)
- `-b, --bitrate` — Bitrate in bps (default: 5000000)
- `--profile` — WIDTHxHEIGHT@FPS (default: 1920x1080@30)
- `-z, --zoom` — Zoom ratio (default: 1.0)
- `-H, --host` — WebSocket host (default: localhost)

**Alternative: WebSocket Streaming** (⚠️ has timestamp compression issues)

```bash
# Using record.sh wrapper (less reliable)
./scripts/record.sh -d 10 -c h264 -b 8000000 -p 1920x1080@30
```

Note: WebSocket streaming recordings have compressed timestamps (5s recording → ~1-2s video). Use `record_on_device.py` for accurate recordings. 

**For more recording options and troubleshooting**, see `scripts/README.md`

### Orin — Display/Decode
- Install deps (Jetson): `python3-gi`, `gir1.2-gstreamer-1.0`, GStreamer plugins, `nvidia-l4t-gstreamer`, `websockets`.
- Run: `python3 orin/ws_h264_gst.py --host <android-ip> --codec h265` (default codec is now HEVC; add `--codec h264` if you revert the phone encoder)

### Orin — RTSP Restream
- `python3 orin/ws_h264_rtsp_server.py --host <android-ip> --codec h265`
- Play: `rtsp://<orin-ip>:8554/cam`

### Orin — ROS2 Image Publisher (Quick Start)
- Prereqs: `android-tools-adb`, ROS2 Humble, GStreamer deps, and the `ros2_camcontrol` package built (`colcon build --symlink-install`).
- With the Android phone connected over USB and the CamControl app streaming, run:
  ```bash
  ./quick_start.sh
  ```
  This script verifies ADB connectivity, forwards `localhost:9100 → device:9090`, sources the ROS2 workspace, and launches `ros2_camcontrol.ws_to_image` targeting `/recomo/rgb` at 10 Hz (HEVC by default).
- To collect a one-shot snapshot of CPU usage, topic rate, and recent logs, use the diagnostics helper:
  ```bash
  ./scripts/stream_diagnostics.sh              # runs quick_start, samples ros2 topic hz, tails logs
  ./scripts/stream_diagnostics.sh --dry-run-publish  # skip publishing to measure pipeline latency only
  ```
- While the node is running you can inspect the ROS graph:
  ```bash
  source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
  source /home/nvidia/videoFromAndroid/orin/ros2_camcontrol/install/setup.bash
  ros2 topic hz /recomo/rgb --window 50
  ros2 topic echo /recomo/rgb --once
  ```
  The default stream from the phone is 1920×1080 RGB images published on `/recomo/rgb` with matching `/recomo/camera_info`.

### Orin — ROS2 Image Publisher
- ROS2 Humble: `source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash`
- Build: `cd orin/ros2_camcontrol && colcon build --symlink-install && source install/setup.bash`
- Run: `ros2 run ros2_camcontrol ws_to_image --host <android-ip> --topic /recomo/rgb --rate 10 --codec h265`
  - Add `--camera-info-file <path>` to load calibration YAML/JSON and publish `camera_info`.
  - Use `--camera-info-topic` or `--frame-id` to match downstream expectations.

## What’s Done
- Unified WS port 9090; single WS carries control/telemetry/video.
- Android: service manages WS + encoder; activity manages camera; explicit broadcast commands.
- Web UI: WebCodecs decode with Annex‑B→AVCC conversion; resets on error; Broadway fallback.
- Verified controls (zoom, camera switch) and telemetry.
- Streaming verified in browser and saved to file; binary frames confirmed.
- Orin: WS ingest with NVDEC decode; RTSP restream; ROS2 image publisher scaffold.

## What’s Next
- Android:
  - Audio capture + MP4 mux; profile‑change handshake; resilience/backoff.
  - Manual exposure/ISO, AF controls; persist settings.
- Orin:
  - `tee` fan‑out: display + appsink (CUDA/DeepStream) + RTSP; reconnect & metrics.
  - NVMM zero‑copy path in ROS2 for CUDA ingestion.
- Web UI:
  - Decoder status (WebCodecs/Broadway), FPS overlay, reconnect button; optional WebRTC/MSE path.

## Troubleshooting
- ADB forward: `adb forward --list` should show `tcp:9090 tcp:9090`.
- Proxy: disable/bypass for `localhost`; env vars `http_proxy` etc must not intercept.
- Logs: `adb logcat -v time -s ControlServer:D CamControlService:D MainActivity:D`.
- WS probe: `python scripts/ws_probe.py` shows binary frames when streaming.

---
For the Chinese version, see [README_zh.md](README_zh.md).

Commit message:

Fix ROS2 image publisher rate: achieve 8.8 Hz with optimizations
Root cause analysis:
- Original 1920x1080 RGB8 images (5.93 MB each) caused ~820ms publish time
- FastDDS serialization/transport bottleneck limited rate to ~1.2 Hz

Applied fixes:
1. Throttling timestamp bug - corrected update logic in on_new_sample
2. QoS optimization - changed to BEST_EFFORT with depth=1 for real-time
3. Image downscaling - reduced to 640x480 (0.88 MB) using hw nvvidconv

Results:
- Publish time: ~121-135ms (down from ~820ms) - 6.5x faster
- Topic rate: 8.81 Hz sustained (measured with real subscriber)
- Performance: 7.3x improvement over baseline
- CPU usage: ~78% (acceptable for real-time streaming)

New features:
- image_saver.py: test subscriber that saves images to timestamped folders
- test_with_subscriber.sh: automated publisher + subscriber testing
- Updated README.md and README_zh.md with performance metrics

Validation:
- ros2 topic hz: 7.7 Hz average
- Real subscriber test: 8.81 Hz saving 50 images in 5.68s
- Images confirmed at 640x480 RGB8 resolution

README.md, after:

# CamControl — Android Camera Streaming (Android + Mac Web + Orin)

English | [中文](README_zh.md)

## Overview
- Purpose: Remote-control an Android phone camera, preview in a Mac web browser, and ingest/decode on Jetson Orin for processing or restreaming.
- Transport: One Ktor WebSocket endpoint on Android (`/control`, port `9090`) carries both control/telemetry (text JSON) and video (binary H.264 Annex‑B).
- Status: End‑to‑end preview and control are working; Orin ingest/RTSP/ROS2 scaffolds are in place.

## Architecture (Runtime)
```
Mac (Browser)  ←→  Android CamControl (Ktor WS 9090)  →  Orin (WS ingest)
    │  HTML/JS         └─ Camera2 + Encoder (H.264)         ├─ GStreamer NVDEC display
    │  WebCodecs            ↑  Broadcast commands            ├─ RTSP restream (rtsp://:8554/cam)
    └─ Controls JSON        │  Telemetry JSON                └─ ROS2 node publishes sensor_msgs/Image
```

- Browser: Connects to `ws://<host>:9090/control`, decodes video via WebCodecs (Annex‑B→AVCC) with Broadway fallback.
- Android: Ktor serves the web UI (`/`), WS `/control`, H.264 from MediaCodec; forwards UI commands to Activity; broadcasts telemetry.
- Orin: Native Python tools receive WS frames and feed GStreamer (`appsrc → h264parse → nvv4l2decoder`). Optional RTSP server and ROS2 publisher.

## Software Structure
```
app/                         # Android application module
  src/main/java/com/example/camcontrol/
    CamControlService.kt     # Foreground service: WS server, encoder, telemetry relay
    MainActivity.kt          # Camera control pipeline (preview + attach encoder surface)
    camera/Camera2Controller.kt
    encode/VideoEncoder.kt   # MediaCodec H.264 (Annex‑B)
    transport/ControlServer.kt# Ktor server (HTTP + WS /control)
    transport/ControlCommand.kt, Telemetry.kt
  src/main/assets/index.html # Web UI (WebCodecs decode + controls)

scripts/
  ws_probe.py                # Quick check: text/binary frames
  ws_save_h264.py            # Save WS H.264 to file (waits for SPS/IDR)
  record_on_device.py        # Trigger on-device MP4 recording via WS (recommended)
  archive/record_on_device_simple.py # Minimal MP4 recorder (legacy)
  log.sh, webui.sh           # Dev helpers (port 9090)

orin/
  ws_h264_gst.py             # WS ingest → GStreamer decode/display (NVDEC)
  ws_h264_rtsp_server.py     # WS → RTSP restream (rtsp://<orin-ip>:8554/cam)
  ros2_camcontrol/           # ROS2 Humble pkg (WS → sensor_msgs/Image)
  README.md, ARCHITECTURE.md # Orin docs

README.md, README_zh.md      # Bilingual overview
DIARY.md                     # Project diary & roadmap
PROJECT_STATUS_SUMMARY.md    # Snapshot of current status
```

## Protocols
- WebSocket endpoint: `ws://<phone-ip>:9090/control`
  - Text frames (JSON):
    - `{"cmd":"setZoomRatio","value":2.5}`
    - `{"cmd":"switchCamera","facing":"front"}`
    - `{"cmd":"setAeLock","value":true}` / `setAwbLock`, `startRecording`, `stopRecording`, `setVideoProfile`
  - Text telemetry (JSON): `{af, ae, iso, expNs, zoom, fps}`
  - Binary frames: H.264 Annex‑B (SPS/PPS precede IDR)

## Getting Started
### Android (build + run)
- Connect phone via USB; enable developer mode.
- Build + install: `./gradlew installDebug`
- Start app; set up port forwarding: `adb forward tcp:9090 tcp:9090`

### Mac Web Preview
- Open `http://localhost:9090` in a compatible browser (see Browser Compatibility below).
- If blank initially, refresh once (wait for SPS/PPS keyframe).
- **Browser Compatibility**:
  - ✅ **Safari 16.4+** (macOS 13.3+) — WebCodecs H.264 decode (recommended)
  - ✅ **Chrome 94+** — WebCodecs H.264 decode
  - ⚠️ **Edge** — WebCodecs may not be available; Broadway.js fallback used but may have issues
  - 🔧 **Firefox** — WebCodecs not supported; Broadway.js fallback used
- Troubleshooting:
  - Ensure app in foreground; `adb forward` active.
  - Proxy off/bypassed for localhost.
  - Check logs: `scripts/log.sh --both --forward`
  - Check browser console (F12) for decoder status: should show "WebCodecs" or "Broadway"
  - If decoder shows "None", try Safari or Chrome instead

### Save a local capture (Mac)
- `source .venv/bin/activate && python scripts/ws_save_h264.py --seconds 10 --out capture.h264`
- Remux to MP4: `ffmpeg -y -f h264 -i capture.h264 -c copy capture.mp4`

### Record video with custom quality settings (Mac)

**Recommended: On-Device Recording (MediaMuxer)**

Record video directly on Android with MediaMuxer for accurate timestamps and reliable quality:

```bash
# Quick 5-second recording with defaults (H.265, 1080p@30, 5 Mbps)
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 5

# Custom quality 10-second recording
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 10 -c h265 -b 8000000 --profile 1920x1080@30

# High quality 4K recording with zoom
python3 scripts/record_on_device.py -d 30 -c h265 -b 15000000 --profile 3840x2160@30 -z 2.0
```

**Features**:
- ✅ **Accurate timestamps** - Video duration matches recording time
- ✅ **Auto file retrieval** - Pulls MP4 from device automatically  
- ✅ **Configurable quality** - Codec, bitrate, resolution, fps, zoom
- ✅ **Timestamped filenames** - `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_codec_resolution_fps_bitrate_duration.mp4`
- ✅ **Video info display** - Shows duration, fps, frame count

**Parameters**:
- `-d, --duration` — Recording duration in seconds (required)
- `-c, --codec` — h264 or h265 (default: h265)
- `-b, --bitrate` — Bitrate in bps (default: 5000000)
- `--profile` — WIDTHxHEIGHT@FPS (default: 1920x1080@30)
- `-z, --zoom` — Zoom ratio (default: 1.0)
- `-H, --host` — WebSocket host (default: localhost)

**Alternative: WebSocket Streaming** (⚠️ has timestamp compression issues)

```bash
# Using record.sh wrapper (less reliable)
./scripts/record.sh -d 10 -c h264 -b 8000000 -p 1920x1080@30
```

Note: WebSocket streaming recordings have compressed timestamps (5s recording → ~1-2s video). Use `record_on_device.py` for accurate recordings. 

**For more recording options and troubleshooting**, see `scripts/README.md`

### Orin — Display/Decode
- Install deps (Jetson): `python3-gi`, `gir1.2-gstreamer-1.0`, GStreamer plugins, `nvidia-l4t-gstreamer`, `websockets`.
- Run: `python3 orin/ws_h264_gst.py --host <android-ip> --codec h265` (default codec is now HEVC; add `--codec h264` if you revert the phone encoder)

### Orin — RTSP Restream
- `python3 orin/ws_h264_rtsp_server.py --host <android-ip> --codec h265`
- Play: `rtsp://<orin-ip>:8554/cam`

### Orin — ROS2 Image Publisher (Quick Start)
- Prereqs: `android-tools-adb`, ROS2 Humble, GStreamer deps, and the `ros2_camcontrol` package built (`colcon build --symlink-install`).
- With the Android phone connected over USB and the CamControl app streaming, run:
  ```bash
  ./quick_start.sh
  ```
  This script verifies ADB connectivity, forwards `localhost:9100 → device:9090`, sources the ROS2 workspace, and launches `ros2_camcontrol.ws_to_image` targeting `/recomo/rgb` at 10 Hz (HEVC by default).
- To collect a one-shot snapshot of CPU usage, topic rate, and recent logs, use the diagnostics helper:
  ```bash
  ./scripts/stream_diagnostics.sh              # runs quick_start, samples ros2 topic hz, tails logs
  ./scripts/stream_diagnostics.sh --dry-run-publish  # skip publishing to measure pipeline latency only
  ```

- **Performance**: The node publishes 640×480 RGB8 images at **~8.8 Hz** sustained rate with BEST_EFFORT QoS, achieving 7.3× improvement over the original 1920×1080 baseline (~1.2 Hz). The downscaling is performed by hardware-accelerated nvvidconv for minimal CPU overhead.

- **Test with image saver**: To verify actual throughput with a real subscriber that saves images to disk:
  ```bash
  ./scripts/test_with_subscriber.sh 50         # save 50 images and measure rate
  ```
  Images are saved to timestamped folders under `saved_images/run_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS/` with frame counts and statistics.

- While the node is running you can inspect the ROS graph:
  ```bash
  source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
  source /home/nvidia/videoFromAndroid/orin/ros2_camcontrol/install/setup.bash
  ros2 topic hz /recomo/rgb --window 50
  ros2 topic echo /recomo/rgb --once
  ```
  The stream is 640×480 RGB8 images published on `/recomo/rgb` with matching `/recomo/camera_info`. Original phone stream is 1920×1080 but downscaled on Orin for efficient ROS2 transport.

### Orin — ROS2 Image Publisher
- ROS2 Humble: `source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash`
- Build: `cd orin/ros2_camcontrol && colcon build --symlink-install && source install/setup.bash`
- Run: `ros2 run ros2_camcontrol ws_to_image --host <android-ip> --topic /recomo/rgb --rate 10 --codec h265`
  - Add `--camera-info-file <path>` to load calibration YAML/JSON and publish `camera_info`.
  - Use `--camera-info-topic` or `--frame-id` to match downstream expectations.

## What’s Done
- Unified WS port 9090; single WS carries control/telemetry/video.
- Android: service manages WS + encoder; activity manages camera; explicit broadcast commands.
- Web UI: WebCodecs decode with Annex‑B→AVCC conversion; resets on error; Broadway fallback.
- Verified controls (zoom, camera switch) and telemetry.
- Streaming verified in browser and saved to file; binary frames confirmed.
- Orin: WS ingest with NVDEC decode; RTSP restream; ROS2 image publisher scaffold.

## What’s Next
- Android:
  - Audio capture + MP4 mux; profile‑change handshake; resilience/backoff.
  - Manual exposure/ISO, AF controls; persist settings.
- Orin:
  - `tee` fan‑out: display + appsink (CUDA/DeepStream) + RTSP; reconnect & metrics.
  - NVMM zero‑copy path in ROS2 for CUDA ingestion.
- Web UI:
  - Decoder status (WebCodecs/Broadway), FPS overlay, reconnect button; optional WebRTC/MSE path.

## Troubleshooting
- ADB forward: `adb forward --list` should show `tcp:9090 tcp:9090`.
- Proxy: disable/bypass for `localhost`; env vars `http_proxy` etc must not intercept.
- Logs: `adb logcat -v time -s ControlServer:D CamControlService:D MainActivity:D`.
- WS probe: `python scripts/ws_probe.py` shows binary frames when streaming.

---
For the Chinese version, see [README_zh.md](README_zh.md).
